Obviously, we’re going to be
discussing the anointed this morning.
The Watchtower’s theme
from where the comments are taken was
“The Spirit Bears Witness With Our Spirit.”
The thing to keep in mind is that this issue
of The Watchtower, January 2016,
where the comments
were taken from  this morning
(as well as the following article)
addressed the matter of the anointed
and how God’s people
should view this subject.
And really, they’re both
certainly worthy of reviewing.
And since the time that we studied this,
there are thousands that have been baptized.
So these questions come up,
and it’s nice and clear
in these two study articles.
So this morning,
since this is the focus
of the Scriptural discussion,
we’ll talk about these questions
about the anointed.
And let’s
open up to the entire scripture here
from where our text came from,
1 John chapter 3
—1 John chapter 3.
Let’s read verse 2 in its entirety:
“Beloved ones, we are now children of God,
“but it has not yet been made
manifest what we will be.
“We do know that when
he is made manifest we will be like him,
because we will see him just as he is.”
So it’s very obvious, and, of course,
we know that John was inspired here,
and this was written
after decades of sacred service
to Jehovah God as one of his anointed sons.
And you can note the confidence
in what John writes here
to his fellow anointed brothers and sisters.
If you go to the end of the verse,
it’s not that we might “be like him,”
we might “see him.”
No, “we will be like him”;
“we will see him just as he is.”
So that’s not an overconfidence,
but that’s a confidence
because of the conviction
that Jehovah had indeed anointed him.
And it was obvious there
in the first century with the gifts and such.
But it’s the same kind of conviction
for the anointed today
that this is what’s going to be
the future as long as they
maintain their integrity
and honor Jehovah God.
That’s why with this nice statement
and today’s comments that we’ll read shortly,
some wonder (and maybe
you’ve had the experience
of someone talking to you,
particularly if you’re an elder)
if they have the heavenly hope?
And some are sincere.
They’ve gone through
difficult times in their life.
Maybe they’ve been
in the truth for a few years,
and they’re looking
for some advice and direction.
Notice what The Watchtower
stated, if you’re wondering:
“In fact, if you are wondering whether
you have received the heavenly calling,
“that would in itself indicate
that you have not received it.”
Straightforward
—so something to keep in mind
to use whenever that comes up.
It would be done in a kind way.
But if they’re wondering about it,
they haven’t received it.
Now, sometimes some brothers
will ask anointed ones,
“How do you know you are anointed?”
Imagine saying that to the apostle John.
‘John, how do you know you’re anointed?’
‘Well, read my first letter there
‘that Jehovah inspired me to write,
and that will answer it for you.’
Now, the anointed
may choose to attempt to answer
or they might say that it is personal.
Now, the second article,
as I mentioned earlier,
addressed this issue,
and it’s a good thing to keep in mind.
The second article
in paragraph 10 stated regarding
appropriate respect
for those whom Jehovah chooses to anoint:
“We would not ask them personal questions
about their anointing.”
That’s pretty clear.
So God forgives you
if you’ve done that in the past,
but from now on,
that’s the clear message.
Nonetheless, it’s happened
many times in the past,
and it can still happen
because we’re all imperfect
—we’re not paying attention.
I’ll share with you what I know
happened with Brother Fred Franz.
This, of course,
is clearly one of the anointed,
and before he died, he was
part of “the faithful and discreet slave.”
So it was in the early 1980’s,
and my wife and my sons were
at a Kingdom Hall where I gave a public talk.
And then there was a small gathering
following the meeting.
I knew the one couple that had us over,
but there was one particular sister
there who had a lot of questions and such,
and I didn’t know her personally.
But she had just been at Brooklyn Bethel,
and she had the opportunity
to meet Brother Fred Franz.
So I’m just listening to her,
and the rest of the family is listening,
and she says (among some
of the other things she mentioned),
“I asked Brother Franz, ‘How do you
know you’re one of the anointed?’”
Well, I’m looking at her like, really?
You asked this spiritual giant,
“How do you know you’re one of the anointed?”
It wasn’t
a real inquisitive type of question,
just whatever was going on in her mind.
We want to be patient with Jehovah’s sheep.
But I was very touched,
and I think you may be as well.
Brother Franz’s answer—
Because I said, “Well, what did he say?”
And she said,
“Romans 8:15-17,
and that’s all he’d say.”
So let’s read that,
Romans 8:15-17.
And this is the answer to that question
and where the theme
for that Watchtower  article came from.
Verse 15: “For you did not
receive a spirit of slavery
“causing fear again, but you
received a spirit of adoption as sons,
“by which spirit we cry out: ‘Abba, Father!’
“The spirit itself bears witness
with our spirit that we are God’s children.
“If, then, we are children, we are also heirs
“—heirs indeed of God,
“but joint heirs with Christ
—provided we suffer together
so that we may also be glorified together.”
So that’s the simple, direct answer.
Jehovah’s spirit bears witness
with the spirit of the one
that he’s chosen to anoint
—the most powerful force in the universe.
And it convinces that individual
that they’re an adopted son of God
—a joint heir with Christ Jesus.
So this is a nice experience in how well
and kindly Brother Franz handled that.
And he had never met her in his life
but just gave her a Scriptural response.
Now further on this, in addition,
I just want to have you consider this thought
when you try to get
the anointed to try to explain
(and you’re not anointed
and you want them to try to explain)
how they know they’re anointed.
I’ve appreciated this over the years.
Here’s a quote from The Watchtower
of 2000, January 15, page 15,
that had the theme “‘Desirable Things’
Are Filling Jehovah’s House.”
Now notice: “In effect, Jesus was
offered up on the altar of God’s will
“when he was baptized and anointed
by God’s holy spirit in 29 C.E.
“Indeed, this event marked
the beginning of a sacrificial life course
“for Jesus that lasted
for three and a half years.
“During that period,
Jesus enjoyed
a spirit-begotten relationship with God.”
Now notice: “This unique standing
that Jesus had with his heavenly Father
“could not be fully comprehended
by other humans.
“It was as if a screen
blocked their eyes of discernment,
“just as a screen shielded the Holy
from the view
of those in the tabernacle courtyard.”
So it’s very clear.
It’s trying to explain
that you can’t see into the Holy.
And even the disciples
at that time couldn’t comprehend
Jesus’ spirit-begotten status
until later when Jehovah
gave them his holy spirit
and begot them as his sons.
Now, carrying over
the same point with the spiritual temple,
back in 1996, July 1, page 16,
regarding Jehovah’s great spiritual temple:
“The first compartment of the temple
“pictures a condition
superior to that of the courtyard.
“Priests who served inside
the Holy of the earthly temple
were unseen by worshipers on the outside.”
See, in the courtyard
you couldn’t see into the Holy.
Now notice The Watchtower stated:
“Likewise, anointed Christians
experience a spiritual condition
“that is not shared or fully understood
“by the majority of worshipers of God,
whose hope is to live forever
on a paradise earth.”
So you’re not going to be able to explain
what it’s like because you
can’t see in there.
So if you can’t even see in there,
how are you going to even understand
what it’s like to be in there?
So this is just a good thing to keep in mind.
Each of us has a place
in Jehovah’s organization,
and for this we should rejoice.
And let’s just thank him
for whatever hope we have
and for his undeserved kindness.